   products ::: library ::: search ::: daily Python-URL!
The ImageTk Module

Prev   Next

The ImageTk module contains support to create and modify
Tkinter BitmapImage and PhotoImage objects from PIL
images.

For examples, see the demo programs in the Scripts
directory.

The BitmapImage Class

ImageTk.BitmapImage(image, options) => BitmapImage
instance

Create a Tkinter-compatible bitmap image, which can be
used everywhere Tkinter expects an image object.

The given image must have mode "1". Pixels having value
0 are treated as transparent. Options, if any, are
passed to Tkinter. The most commonly used option is
foreground, which is used to specify the colour for the
non-transparent parts. See the Tkinter documentation for
information on how to specify colours.

The PhotoImage Class

ImageTk.PhotoImage(image) => PhotoImage instance

Creates a Tkinter-compatible photo image, which can be
used everywhere Tkinter expects an image object. If the
image is an RGBA image, pixels having alpha 0 are
treated as transparent.

ImageTk.PhotoImage(mode, size) => PhotoImage instance

Same as above, but creates an empty (transparent) photo
image object. Use paste to copy image data to this
object.

Methods

photo.paste(image, box)

Pastes an image into the photo image. The box is a
4-tuple defining the left, upper, right, and lower pixel
coordinate. If the box is omitted, or None, all of the
image is assumed. In all cases, the size of the pasted
image must match the size of the region. If the image
mode does not match the photo image mode, conversions
are automatically applied.

Note: Pasting into an RGBA image that is displayed is a
very slow operation. It's usually better to create a new
image object.
